It doesn’t matter what websites you visit
or what apps you use
Whether you’re shopping, sharing photos
or just sending messages
A lot of digital services all work
the same kind of way.
That’s because most services are
made up of things called “design patterns”.
So what’s a design pattern?
A design pattern is what you get when someone
solves a really common problem.
And they do it in a way that’s
easy for others to copy.
That’s why you see the same things
pop up again and again.
Let me give you some examples.
Say you’re searching for somewhere to eat.
The search engine might ask you if
you want to share your location
to get more specific results.
That’s a design pattern called
“just-in-time consent”.
It’s called “just-in-time” because the service is
asking for permission to do something
right at the last possible second.
Here’s another example.
When you download a new app,
you often get a long list of questions
asking whether it can use your photos,
or your contacts, or share details about you.
That’s called “upfront consent”.
It’s a design pattern used to get
your permission to do specific things later on.
Now, some design patterns have been around
for a very long time.
Like Terms and Conditions.
It can be impossible to know
what you’ve actually agreed to
when you accept.
That’s why we’re interested in
design patterns at IF.
We think a lot of them are broken.
A lot of services don’t feel very empowering.
That’s because the design patterns they use
don’t give us very much choice.
It’s all or nothing. You either agree
or disagree.
We don’t think that’s good enough.
We think collecting and sharing new patterns
could change all of that.
Teams can see that there are actually
better ways to build services.
Services that actually empower people.
If you want to help us do that, visit
projectsbyif.com
The internet is full of patterns.
Let’s make them better.